So now, we're going to move on to demo three,
Creating Fact and Dimension Tables.
So from here, I am going back to Jupiter Notebooks.
I'm going to open lesson two, demo three,
Creating Fact and Dimension Tables with a Star Schema. Just as a note.
Here, we're utilizing Jupiter Notebooks and Python to interact with the database,
but this is really just one way.
I wouldn't even say it's the best way or there's no best ways,
really whatever works for your use case.
It's all about that.
But this is just one way and a good way,
but it's just one way that we can represent how to
connect to the database and how to do create tables,
inserts, things like that.
In this demo, we're going to walk through the basics of
modeling data using fact and dimension tables.
We'll create both fact and dimension tables,
and show how this is the basic elements of the star schema.
So again, we're going to import the library,
ignore my error, we're going to create a connection to the database.
Again, this is all things that we've done in the other demos and other exercises.
We're going to use that cursor to execute queries.
Again, we're going to set our augment to true.
So now, let's imagine we work in an online music store.
There will be many tables in our database,
but let's just focus on four of those tables all around customer purchases.
So we're going to have a table name,
customer transactions, with a Customer ID,
Store ID, and how much they spent.
From there, we're going to have a Customer table,
with a Customer ID, Name,
and whether they are in a rewards program.
Then, we're going to have a Store table,
with Store ID, and the state that that stores in.
Then, we're going to have items purchased.
We're going to have our Customer ID, and the Item name.
So here's example.
We saw this in earlier in the slides.
Here are all the tables and their connections.
As we can see, it may be resembling the star schema here.
So from this representation,
we can already start to see that its the makings of the star schema.
We have one fact table,
the center of the star,
and three dimension tables that are coming from it.
So let's create the fact table,
insert data into the table.
So we're going to create our customer transactions table,
and we're going to insert the data into that table.
Now, let's create a dimension tables,
insert data into those tables.
So again, items purchased,
then we're going to insert our data.
We're going to create our store,
and insert our data into that.
We're going to create our customer,
Let's just do that simply here.
Alright. We can do a variety of queries
to state it easily because we are utilizing the fact,
dimension, and star schema.
So here's my first query I want to be able to perform.
Find all the customers that spent more than $30,
who they are, what did they buy,
and if they are rewards member.
Then query two, how much did store one sell?
Query one, find all the customers that spent more than $30,
who they are, what did they buy,
and if there rewards member.
So for this example,
we want select on our name,
our item name, right?
Because we want to know who they are.
So that's her name. What did they buy?
The item name, and if they were rewards member or not.
So if they have the rewards program.
So to be able to do this,
we're going to have to do joins on multiple of our tables.
So from our customer transaction table,
we want to join on the customer table.
So on, and we're going to join that on the same column,
which is Customer ID.
That's our foreign key. That's how we're going to combine those two tables.
From there, we want to join on the items purchased.
We're going to join that on the customer transaction table,
that has the Customer ID and the items purchased,
which also has a column called Customer ID.
All of this, we only want the customers or they spent more than $30.
So it looks like two b,
somebody who spent more than $30 on let it be,
and he is not a rewards member.
Now, we want to do a second query.
How much did store one sell?
So third query, we want to do a select Store ID,
because we want it from store one.
Then, we want to do a sum on the spent column,
from customer transactions, GroupBy Store ID.
Great. So we see store one,
they made a profit of $55.71.
So summary, what you can see here is that from this elegant schema,
we were able to get facts and metrics from our fact table,
which is what we did here in the second query with our customer transactions.
Also, information about our customers that will allow us to do more in-depth
analytics to get answers to business questions
by utilizing our facts and dimension tables.
So again here, we were able to get a quick answer,
a fact, something true,
which is that the stores sold $55.71 of merchandise.
We've got that quickly from our fact table.
Then here, we learned something about our customer.
We learned our customer,
this is the item that they purchased,
and that they're actually not a rewards member.
So maybe that's somebody that we need to reach out
to and get them in our rewards program.
Then here, at the end of the demo,
I'm going to drop all my tables.
Again, I'm going to close my cursor.